---
layout: post
title: "2025-10-23-daily-logs"
date: 2025-10-23
categories: daily-logs
---


Fourth day in a fucking row lets go.

As always lets get some dailys out of the way
- Did wanikani as usual ,  more than half way there on level 7 i beilieve
- Did anki , N4 dec\k would probably be over by 1 -1.5 month guess.

Oh yeah ,yesterday i had missed reading the OS book , I did read it today , complemented the chapter on crash recovery , my previous database knowledge did help me here.
This book would also be complement quite soon , very few chapters (2-3) are remaining.
So probably would be finished in 3 days. I wonder should i pick up a new book , i think it would be on OS only maybe a more practical book or just maybe surfing the documentions and OS wiki

I unfortunately did not got enough time to work on the project though, I did made any changes just tried to understand some concepts about the display IO and keyboard input capturing.

SO heres the TLDR - 
 - **Display** - So according to OS wiki dev this is one of the old way to print things. VGA is MMIO and basically it provides a address in the your memory where you can write to the buffer and that buffer would be outputted
   it has like a pallete buffer which is basically a map of number(0 -256 ) -> Color
   Since storing a color requires 3-4 bytes i guess and storing it for every pixel is takes lot of space. so instead we can use pallete map and just store 1 byte for each pixel. we can configure this pallet map as well.
   Buttt most of devices currenly use UEFI thing for displaying text , i havent really looked into it , but i have head this name , its come up wherenver i boot up my PC... interesting
 - Keyboard - Oh boy this was not straight forward , SOOO basically on the OS DEV wiki they have section on keyboard and they have mentioned PS/2 keyboard , this driver/controller (?) uses port IO , so we would have accedd to a port and we would send commands on the this port and receive data on this port. To avoid continuous loop on for checking the data , instead we can a interrupt that the hardware would raise whenever there is a data on port, and then we can read that.
   BUTTT  this is also old tech , PS2 is like a old cable type, modern computers use USB for keyboard mouse or bluetooth, I really havenet looked up the case for bluetooth (oh boy that would be an another mess). but usb is also not simple. for USB linux itslef has many layers
	   1) first an interrupt would occur when a usb is plugged
	   2) then kernel would ask it to identify itseld
	   3) the device would say i am this type of keyboard
	   4) then linux would load the driver for that kernel 
	   5) then the data tranfer would begin
	I am using a virtual machine which can translate the usb data to PS/2 data which is comparatively easy to build that usb.
	
	
	
	
The world of abstractions is so crazy sometimes my heads starts hurting with just imagining how many abstractions are there just at the sofware level to just do a normal database push or show something on screen.



Apart from abstractions - lets talk about some distractions

I have been listening to music from [puiko](https://www.youtube.com/@puiko100), she mainly plays piano and does piano cover arrangements + some original arrangements. Her arrangements are so good i havent even listned to all of her arrangements just 3-4 and like i guess 3 out of them. 

These are some of her arrangements i liked from her-
- 003 - one of her original work , i love this - https://youtu.be/GpbA4vZFYvo?si=iqvurLybgt2TJdfw
  - Signal Tk from 91 days anime - this is cover from a anime that i had watched just because of this song. although unfortunately i did not liked the anime as much as the song. This is was the first arrangement that introduced me to her idk few months/years ago idk when i listened to it for the first time , i liked it but didnt listened to her other arrngements back then . I love TK/s song as well( the origianal creator of this song ). 
    https://youtu.be/4tairtl8H80?si=KNatnpsa2qa2GcnL
  - https://youtu.be/FHyMNyvyAfE?si=PY96kT2ZK6qdAnu0
    
Her music has some nostalgia to it , feels like it is recorded raw (i might be raw) it is not that high quality sound wise the the arrangements are so beautiful , unfortunately she has stopped uploading on her youtube channel like 9 years ago. So that even add more to the nostalgia . But she is doing well in her life , she has an twitter account and apparently she is mother of two child. Apart from music she also does photography and drawing , man she is so talented , i wish i as also this talented . I dont think talent is only acquirable from birth before do work for it , i just wish i also had enough time to make all my dreams reality.
Any way she was active on twitter but last few years it has also started to become barren with no post this year . which is sad and but i am happy as well if she is doing good in life. It like a happy ending of a show, Main character settles in life and get absorved in the backgroud of life. I guess this is what we call bitter sweet